Client-Server Model

The client-server model is a distributed application structure that partitions tasks or workloads 
between the providers of a resource or service, called servers, and service requesters, called clients.
Often clients and servers communicate over a computer network on separate hardware, but both client and
server may reside in the same system. A server host runs one or more server programs, which share their
resources with clients. A client does not share any of its resources, but requests a server's content 
or service function. Clients therefore initiate communication sessions with servers, which await 
incoming requests.

Client: This is the user's device running a web browser or application, making requests to the server. 
The client initiates communication by sending requests to the server.

Server: This is the machine or software providing services or resources. In the context of ASP.NET, 
the server runs web applications and sends responses to the client's browser. It processes incoming 
requests, runs business logic, accesses databases or files if needed, and sends responses back to the 
client.

Communication: Clients and servers communicate over a network, typically using the HTTP or HTTPS 
protocols for web applications. The client sends a request to the server, which then processes the 
request and sends back a response, often in the form of an HTML page, JSON data, or files.

Statelessness: The HTTP protocol, which underpins most client-server communications in web 
applications, is stateless. This means each request from a client to a server is independent; the 
server does not inherently keep track of the client's state. However, web applications often implement 
mechanisms like sessions and cookies to maintain state across multiple requests.

Roles: In the client-server model, the server provides services like data storage, processing, and 
business logic, which are consumed by the client. This separation allows clients to access the same 
server services from different devices or locations and enables efficient scaling and management of 
resources on the server side.


URLs:
Uniform Resource Locators (URLs) are used to identify resources on the web. A URL is a string

Portions of the URL:
1. Protocol: The protocol used to access the resource, such as HTTP, HTTPS, or FTP.
2. Domain: The domain name or IP address of the server hosting the resource.
3. Port: The port number to connect to on the server. This is optional and defaults to 80 for HTTP and
   443 for HTTPS.
4. Path: The path to the resource on the server, such as a file or directory.
5. Query: Additional parameters or data to be sent to the server, often used in web applications to 
   pass information
6. Fragment: A specific section or anchor within the resource, often used in HTML documents to link to
   specific sections of a page.

Coding by Convention
ASP.NET Core uses a convention-based approach to application development, which means that it
provides default behaviors and configurations based on a set of conventions. This approach reduces
the amount of configuration and boilerplate code required to build an application, allowing developers
to focus on writing application-specific code.
For Example:
1. Controller Conventions: If you name a class with a "Controller" suffix (e.g., HomeController), 
ASP.NET MVC treats it as a controller and looks for views corresponding to its action methods in 
specific locations by convention (e.g., /Views/Home/Index.cshtml for the Index action of 
HomeController).

2. Model Conventions: By following conventions in defining your model properties, ASP.NET can infer 
database schema details in Entity Framework Code First, like identifying which property is the primary 
key or understanding relationships between different models without explicit configuration.

3. Routing Conventions: ASP.NET MVC has a default routing convention where URLs are mapped to controllers
and actions based on their names and namespaces, enabling a standard URL structure without requiring 
explicit route definitions for every action.

MVC Pattern
The Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern is a software architectural pattern that separates an
application into three main components: the model, the view, and the controller. This separation
enables the reusability and maintainability of each component and allows for the development of
modular and scalable applications.
Model: The model represents the data and business logic of the application. It encapsulates the
application's data and provides methods to manipulate and access that data. In ASP.NET MVC, the model
often corresponds to the application's data model, such as database entities or domain objects.

View: The view is responsible for presenting the application's user interface to the user. It displays
the data from the model and allows users to interact with the application. In ASP.NET MVC, views are
typically implemented using HTML, CSS, and Razor syntax to generate dynamic content.

Controller: The controller acts as an intermediary between the model and the view. It receives user
input, processes requests, and updates the model as necessary. In ASP.NET MVC, controllers handle
incoming HTTP requests, invoke the appropriate business logic in the model, and select the view to
render the response.

CSS Files:
Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) is a style sheet language used for describing the presentation of a
document written in a markup language like HTML. CSS is used to style the visual appearance of web
pages and user interfaces, including colors, fonts, layout, and more.

Middleware:
Middleware is software that provides common services and capabilities to applications outside of what's
offered by the operating system. In the context of ASP.NET Core, middleware is a component that
intercepts and processes HTTP requests and responses. It sits between the server and the application
and can perform tasks like authentication, logging, routing, and more.
Middleware in this solution is used to handle requests and responses, perform routing, and serve static
files, among other tasks.
MVC Middleware: For applications using the MVC pattern, this middleware handles routing, controllers, 
and views. It processes requests through the MVC framework, enabling the use of controllers and views
to generate responses.

Razor Code:
Razor is a syntax for combining server-side code with HTML to create dynamic web pages. 
In ASP.NET Core, Razor is used to create views that generate HTML content based on data from the
model. Razor syntax allows you to embed C# code within HTML markup, making it easy to create dynamic
and data-driven web pages.
Razor Commands:
1. @: The @ symbol is used to denote the start of a Razor code block or expression. For example, 
   @Model.Title denotes a C# expression that accesses the Title property of the model.
2. @if, @for, @foreach: Razor provides C# control flow constructs like if statements, for loops, and
   foreach loops to conditionally render content based on data.
3. @section: Razor sections are used to define named content blocks within a layout or view. They can be
   rendered or overridden by child views to customize the layout of a page.
4. @Html: The @Html helper is used to generate HTML elements and forms based on model data. For example,
   @Html.TextBoxFor(m => m.Name) generates an input element for the Name property of the model.
5. @model: The @model directive is used to specify the type of the model that a view expects. It allows
   the view to access properties and methods of the model using Razor syntax.

Actions:
In ASP.NET MVC, an action is a method on a controller that handles an incoming HTTP request and
generates an HTTP response. Actions are responsible for processing user input, invoking business
logic, and selecting a view to render the response. Actions are typically public methods that return
an ActionResult or one of its derived types, such as ViewResult or JsonResult.

Constructors:
In object-oriented programming, a constructor is a special method that is automatically called when an
instance of a class is created. Constructors are used to initialize the object's state, allocate
resources, and perform any necessary setup. In C#, a constructor is defined using the class name and
does not have a return type.

Static Classes:
A static class in C# is a class that cannot be instantiated and can only contain static members, such as
methods, properties, and fields. Static classes are commonly used to define utility functions, helper
methods, or extension methods that do not require an instance of the class to be created.

Non-Static Classes:
A non-static class in C# is a class that can be instantiated to create objects. Non-static classes can
contain both static and non-static members, such as methods, properties, and fields. When an instance of
a non-static class is created, it can have its own state and behavior separate from other instances of
the same class.

Static Classes vs. Non-Static Classes:
1. Instantiation: Static classes cannot be instantiated, while non-static classes can be instantiated to
   create objects.
2. Members: Static classes can only contain static members, while non-static classes can contain both
   static and non-static members.
3. State: Static classes do not have instance-specific state, while non-static classes can have
   instance-specific state and behavior.
4. Usage: Static classes are commonly used for utility functions and helper methods, while non-static
   classes are used to define objects with state and behavior.

Return Statements:
In C#, the return statement is used to exit a method and return a value to the caller. The return
statement can be used to return a value from a method that has a return type, such as int, string, or
custom types. It can also be used to return from a method that does not have a return type, such as a
void method.

.UseDefaultFiles():
The UseDefaultFiles method is used to serve default files for a request to a directory. When a request
is made to a directory, the UseDefaultFiles middleware looks for a default file, such as index.html or
default.html, and serves it if found. This allows web servers to serve the default file without
requiring the file name to be explicitly specified in the URL.

.UseStaticFiles():
The UseStaticFiles method is used to serve static files, such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, images, and other
assets, from the specified directory. When a request is made for a static file, the UseStaticFiles
middleware looks for the file in the specified directory and serves it if found. This allows web servers
to serve static files without requiring additional configuration for each file.

.UseRouting():
The UseRouting method is used to enable routing for incoming requests in an ASP.NET Core application. It
configures the middleware pipeline to use the routing middleware, which processes incoming requests and
routes them to the appropriate endpoint based on the request URL and HTTP method.

Forms:
In web development, a form is a user interface element used to collect and submit data to a server. Forms
are commonly used to capture user input, such as text, selections, and file uploads, and send it to the
server for processing. In HTML, forms are defined using the <form> element, which contains input fields,
buttons, and other elements for collecting and submitting data.

Navigation (Routing) in MVC:
Navigation in ASP.NET MVC refers to the process of moving between different views and pages within an
application. Navigation is typically achieved through the use of hyperlinks, buttons, and other user
interface elements that trigger requests to the server and render different views based on the user's
actions.

Inheritance:
Inheritance is a fundamental concept in object-oriented programming that allows a class to inherit
properties and behavior from another class. In C#, a class can inherit from another class using the
colon (:) syntax, and it can access the members of the base class using the base keyword.
Example:
class BaseClass
{
	public void BaseMethod()
	{
		Console.WriteLine("Base method");
	}
}

class DerivedClass : BaseClass
{
	public void DerivedMethod()
	{
		Console.WriteLine("Derived method");
	}
}

In this example, DerivedClass inherits from BaseClass, and it can access the BaseMethod from the base
class.

Interface vs. Class
An interface is a reference type in C# that defines a contract for classes to implement. It contains
method and property signatures but does not provide any implementation. Classes that implement an
interface must provide concrete implementations for all the members defined in the interface.
A class, on the other hand, is a reference type that can contain fields, properties, methods, and other
members. Classes can be instantiated to create objects, and they can inherit from other classes or
implement interfaces.

Interfaces:
1. An interface defines a contract for classes to implement, specifying method and property signatures
   without providing any implementation.
2. Classes that implement an interface must provide concrete implementations for all the members defined
   in the interface.
3. Interfaces are commonly used to define common behavior that can be shared across different classes
   without requiring them to inherit from a common base class.
4. An interface can be implemented by any class, regardless
   of its inheritance hierarchy, allowing for greater flexibility in defining and implementing behavior.

Data Annotations:
Data annotations are attributes that can be applied to model properties in ASP.NET MVC to specify
validation rules, display names, and other metadata. Data annotations are used to define the behavior
and appearance of model properties, and they are commonly used to enforce validation rules and customize
the display of data in views.
Example:
public class Product
{
	[Required(ErrorMessage = "Product name is required")]
	[StringLength(50, ErrorMessage = "Product name cannot exceed 50 characters")]
	public string Name { get; set; }

	[Range(0, 1000, ErrorMessage = "Price must be between 0 and 1000")]
	public decimal Price { get; set; }
}

Tag Helpers:
Tag helpers are a feature of ASP.NET Core that enable server-side code to participate in creating and
rendering HTML elements. Tag helpers are used to simplify the process of generating HTML by providing
an alternative syntax that is more similar to HTML itself. Tag helpers are commonly used to generate
links, forms, and other HTML elements in ASP.NET Core views.
Example:
<a asp-controller="Home" asp-action="Index">Home</a>
In this example, the asp-controller and asp-action attributes are tag helpers that generate an anchor
element with the appropriate URL based on the specified controller and action.

C# Arrays:
An array in C# is a collection of elements of the same type that are stored in contiguous memory
locations. Arrays are used to store and manipulate multiple values of the same type, and they provide
efficient access to individual elements based on their index.
Example:
int[] numbers = new int[5];
numbers[0] = 10;
numbers[1] = 20;
numbers[2] = 30;
numbers[3] = 40;
numbers[4] = 50;
In this example, numbers is an array of integers with a length of 5, and individual elements can be
accessed using their index (e.g., numbers[0] returns 10).
Flexible Arrays:
In C#, arrays are fixed-size data structures, meaning that their length is determined at the time of
creation and cannot be changed. However, C# also provides flexible array-like data structures, such as
lists and collections, that can dynamically grow and shrink in size as needed.
Example:
List<int> numbers = new List<int>();
numbers.Add(10);
numbers.Add(20);
numbers.Add(30);
In this example, numbers is a List of integers, and elements can be added to the list using the Add
method. The list can grow or shrink in size dynamically as elements are added or removed.

Nullable Values:
In C#, a nullable value is a value type that can represent either a valid value of its underlying type
or a null reference. Nullable types are used to represent values that may be missing or unknown, and
they are commonly used to handle database columns, user input, and other scenarios where a value may be
null.
Example:
int? nullableInt = null;
if (nullableInt.HasValue)
{
	Console.WriteLine(nullableInt.Value);
}
else
{
	Console.WriteLine("Value is null");
}
In this example, nullableInt is a nullable integer that can represent either a valid integer value or a
null reference. The HasValue property is used to check if the value is valid, and the Value property is
used to access the underlying value if it exists.

List:
A List in C# is a generic collection type that represents a dynamic array of elements. Lists can grow
and shrink in size dynamically, and they provide efficient access to individual elements based on their
index. Lists are commonly used to store and manipulate collections of data in C#.
Example:
List<int> numbers = new List<int>();
numbers.Add(10);
numbers.Add(20);
numbers.Add(30);
In this example, numbers is a List of integers, and elements can be added to the list using the Add
method. The list can grow or shrink in size dynamically as elements are added or removed.

ViewBag:
The ViewBag is a dynamic property in ASP.NET MVC that is used to pass data from a controller to a view.
It is a dynamic object, meaning that properties can be added to it at runtime, and it is commonly used to
pass data that is not strongly typed to a view.
Example:
public IActionResult Index()
{
	ViewBag.Message = "Hello, world!";
	return View();
}
In this example, the ViewBag.Message property is set in the Index action of a controller, and it is
accessed in the corresponding view to display the message.

NuGet Package Manager:
NuGet is a package manager for .NET that enables developers to create, share, and consume packages of
code. NuGet packages are used to distribute libraries, frameworks, tools, and other components that can
be easily added to .NET projects to provide additional functionality.
The NuGet Package Manager is a tool that integrates with Visual Studio and provides a user interface for
managing NuGet packages in .NET projects. It allows developers to search for, install, update, and remove
NuGet packages from their projects, making it easy to add third-party libraries and components to their
applications.

"model" in ASP.NET MVC:
In ASP.NET MVC, the "model" refers to the data and business logic of the application. It represents the
application's data model, such as database entities or domain objects, and provides methods to manipulate
and access that data. The model is responsible for managing the application's data and enforcing business
rules, and it is typically used to pass data between the controller and the view.

"Model" in ASP.NET MVC:
In ASP.NET MVC, the "Model" refers to the data that is passed from the controller to the view for
rendering. It is an object that contains the data to be displayed in the view, and it is typically
populated by the controller before rendering the view. The Model is used to pass data from the
controller to the view and is accessed in the view to display dynamic content based on the data.

"model" vs "Model" in ASP.NET MVC:
In ASP.NET MVC, "model" refers to the data and business logic of the application, while "Model" refers to
the data that is passed from the controller to the view for rendering. The "model" represents the
application's data model and provides methods to manipulate and access that data, while the "Model" is an
object that contains the data to be displayed in the view and is accessed in the view to display dynamic
content based on the data.

Model-First (Code-First) Approach:
The model-first approach in ASP.NET MVC refers to the process of defining the data model and database
schema before writing any code. In this approach, the data model is designed and defined using tools
like Entity Framework Designer or SQL Server Management Studio, and the code is then generated based on
the model. This approach is commonly used in database-centric applications where the data model is the
primary focus of the development process.

Database-First Approach:
The database-first approach in ASP.NET MVC refers to the process of defining the data model and database
schema based on an existing database. In this approach, the data model is generated from an existing
database using tools like Entity Framework Designer or SQL Server Management Studio, and the code is
then written to interact with the generated model. This approach is commonly used in applications that
need to work with an existing database and want to generate the data model and code based on the
database schema.

Migrations:
Migrations in Entity Framework Core are a way to manage changes to the database schema over time. They
enable developers to make changes to the data model and automatically apply those changes to the
database, keeping the database schema in sync with the application's data model. Migrations are commonly
used to create, update, and revert database schema changes in ASP.NET Core applications.

Scaffolding:
Scaffolding in ASP.NET MVC refers to the process of generating code and files based on a data model or
database schema. Scaffolding tools, such as the Entity Framework scaffolding tool, can be used to
automatically generate controllers, views, and other files based on the data model, enabling developers
to quickly create CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) functionality for their applications.

Entity Framework Core:
Entity Framework Core is an open-source object-relational mapping (ORM) framework for .NET that enables
developers to work with databases using .NET objects. It provides a set of APIs for interacting with
databases, querying data, and performing CRUD operations, and it supports a variety of database
providers, including SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQLite. Entity Framework Core is commonly used
in ASP.NET Core applications to work with databases and data models.

DbSet:
In Entity Framework Core, a DbSet is a collection of entities of a specific type that represents a table
in the database. It is used to query, insert, update, and delete entities in the database, and it
provides a set of methods for interacting with the underlying database table. DbSet is commonly used in
Entity Framework Core to represent database tables and perform CRUD operations on entities.

DbContext:
In Entity Framework Core, a DbContext is a class that represents a session with the database and provides
a set of APIs for interacting with the database. It is responsible for managing the connection to the
database, tracking changes to entities, and executing database queries. DbContext is commonly used in
Entity Framework Core to define the data model and interact with the database.

Entity Framework:
Entity Framework is an object-relational mapping (ORM) framework for .NET that enables developers to work
with databases using .NET objects. It provides a set of APIs for interacting with databases, querying
data, and performing CRUD operations, and it supports a variety of database providers, including SQL
Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQLite. Entity Framework is commonly used in ASP.NET applications to work
with databases and data models.

Entity Framework Core vs. Entity Framework:
Entity Framework Core is the next generation of Entity Framework, and it is a lightweight, extensible,
and cross-platform version of the Entity Framework framework. It is designed to work with .NET Core and
ASP.NET Core, and it provides a set of APIs for interacting with databases, querying data, and
performing CRUD operations. Entity Framework Core is commonly used in modern .NET applications to work
with databases and data models.

ModelState.IsValid:
In ASP.NET MVC, the ModelState.IsValid property is used to check if the model state is valid. It is
commonly used in controller actions to validate user input and ensure that the model state is valid
before processing the input. If the model state is not valid, the controller can return an error
message or redirect the user to a different view.
Example:
[HttpPost]
public IActionResult Create(Product product)
{
	if (ModelState.IsValid)
	{
		// Process valid input
		return RedirectToAction("Index");
	}
	else
	{
		// Return error message
		return View(product);
	}
}
In this example, the ModelState.IsValid property is used to check if the model state is valid before
processing the input. If the model state is valid, the controller processes the input and redirects the
user to the Index view. If the model state is not valid, the controller returns the Create view with an
error message.

Linq:
Language-Integrated Query (LINQ) is a set of features in C# that enable developers to write queries
directly within the C# language. LINQ provides a unified syntax for querying and manipulating data from
different data sources, such as collections, databases, and XML, and it supports a variety of operations
like filtering, sorting, grouping, and joining data. LINQ is commonly used in ASP.NET applications to
query and manipulate data from databases and other sources.

LINQ Query Syntax:
LINQ query syntax is a declarative syntax for writing queries in C# using the LINQ features. It provides
a familiar and expressive syntax for querying and manipulating data, and it supports a variety of
operations like filtering, sorting, grouping, and joining data. LINQ query syntax is commonly used in
ASP.NET applications to write queries that retrieve and process data from databases and other sources.
Example:
var query = from p in products
			where p.Price > 100
			select p;
In this example, the LINQ query syntax is used to retrieve products with a price greater than 100 from
the products collection.


IQueryable:
IQueryable is an interface in .NET that represents a queryable data source. It provides a set of methods
for querying and manipulating data, and it supports a variety of operations like filtering, sorting,
grouping, and joining data. IQueryable is commonly used in LINQ queries to retrieve and process data
from databases and other sources, and it enables developers to write expressive and efficient queries
that are executed on the server.

Git Commands:
1. git init: Initialize a new Git repository in the current directory.
2. git clone <url>: Clone a remote Git repository to the local machine.
3. git add <file>: Add a file to the staging area for the next commit.
4. git commit -m "message": Commit the staged changes with a descriptive message.
5. git push: Push the committed changes to a remote repository.
6. git pull: Fetch and merge changes from a remote repository to the local repository.
7. git branch: List all branches in the local repository.
8. git checkout <branch>: Switch to a different branch in the local repository.
9. git merge <branch>: Merge changes from a different branch into the current branch.
10. git status: Show the current status of the working directory and staging area.
11. git log: Show a history of commits in the repository.
12. git reset --hard: Reset the working directory and staging area to the last commit.

Git:
Git is a distributed version control system that enables developers to track changes to their code,
collaborate with others, and manage different versions of their projects. It provides a set of commands
and workflows for managing code repositories, branching, merging, and more, and it is commonly used in
software development to track and manage changes to code.

Bootstrap Grid System:
The Bootstrap grid system is a responsive, mobile-first grid system that enables developers to create
flexible and responsive layouts for web pages. It is based on a 12-column grid layout, and it provides
classes for defining the layout and alignment of content across different screen sizes, from extra small
to extra large. The Bootstrap grid system is commonly used in web development to create responsive and
mobile-friendly designs.

